Now the market size of
artificial intelligence
as a way of understanding
its impact confronts
a challenge of how we
exactly define what
artificial intelligence is.
Some, with a broad view
like Forrester Research
suggests that more than a
trillion dollars worldwide has
been invested in some form of
computing technology that
brings to bear a notion of
cognition whether it's related to
direct existing human
activities or is
new or is confronting or using
unstructured information.
Tractica a research suggests
that the size of AI,
again not just in Fintech,
but more generally is
about $37 billion by 2025.
The consulting company
Accenture writes that
more than $8 trillion in
market value will
have been invested
in artificial
intelligence by 2035.
Finally on the finance side,
Bank of America
Merrill suggests that
artificial intelligence
based systems
have or will have about a $70
billion market cap by 2025.
Again your aspect ratio
or your definition
of industry sector purpose and so
on in defining
artificial intelligence will
give us a sense of how narrow or
broadly we define
what the market is.
But one sense of the scale
comes when we realize that
artificial intelligence can be
applied in nearly every arena
whether we're talking
about entertainment or
finance or even fundamental
traditional industries,
manufacturing
industries, and so on.
The new IoT or Internet of
Things concept of devices,
tracking data, and sharing
data across them in
a network setting could
itself be related or
defined cognition.
Self-driving vehicles, healthcare
bots, wearable devices,
and so on brings to bear
the idea that everything
could be connected,
and so that artificial
intelligence will
affect every aspect of life.
Now, different observers have
identified different areas
where revenues and
applications are dispersed.
Drilling down into
those provides a kind
of view additional to what we
mentioned a second
ago about some of
the specific use cases that
may harbor advantage for firms,
for financial services
professionals,
and ultimately customers.
Consider the idea of analyzing
contracts using
artificial intelligence and
the attorneys who are
listening may be a little bit
nervous that hearing this,
more regulators might be
happy to hear about it,
or compliance officers
may be happy as well.
The idea that algorithms are able
to read the texts
of contracts and
identify areas of
risk or areas of
commonality with other contracts
or discontinuities and so on,
is an area of rapid expansion
in possibility.
The idea of detecting
objects, classifying
objects physically,
understanding motion size,
understanding how
to avoid objects,
for example with
self-driving vehicles,
is certainly a part
of our future.
Understanding imagery, detecting
identity, classifying,
tracking images and
objects in real-time or in
retrospect represents
a very large area
of current research
impossible monetization.
For example, a series of
research projects at the
University of Pennsylvania and
elsewhere have
identified that pictures
posted on Facebook
can be useful in
identifying individual
personality but can also be
aggregated to identify
health risks and
other aspects that in
a more structured
environment would
require the intervention
of humanity.
The ability to understand
geophysical features or
querying of images in
efficient manners across
perhaps thousands
of objects is another area
of potential advancement.
Then preferencing or
customizing on social media or
elsewhere content
including advertising
and marketing content is already,
and will certainly
continue to be,
valuable for those innovators
who are bringing to
bear the techniques.
Being able to identify
normal or abnormal use
to be able to predict
maintenance requirements
ranging from
smart homes to vehicles
even potentially
to your portfolio,
another area of
identified revenues.
Healthcare applications of
artificial intelligence
had been made famous by
a number of players some of whom
we'll talk about in just a bit.
But the idea that
the processing of patient data
specifically or in the aggregate
giving rise to
potential treatments
of very intractable challenges
like sepsis or healthcare
challenges including outbreaks,
even specific cases
of patient wellness,
doing it quickly,
doing it at scale,
and doing it a way that provides
structure which under
normal circumstances would
either be prone to frailties
and biases that humans
naturally have.
For example, doctors
making different diagnoses
based on the time of the day
in which they see patients,
but also again aggregating
trends in a way
that may provide betterment
in general healthcare.
Classifying static images or
what we call unstructured
data in real time or
in a delayed fashion,
adding tremendous potential
revenue value over time.
Then finally, the area
identified often as the area
for greatest investment in
the financial industry,
algorithmic trading.
I often hear complaints about
how individual
investors feel they
aren't able to keep up with
so-called algorithmic
trading and exchanges.
Well, let me just say
this, if you make
a trade even if it's through
say a discount broker,
almost certainly there
are trades being executed
for your own specific directions
algorithmically.
It's hard to imagine any trades
having today that aren't
somehow bolstered by
technical algorithms in
electronic connections,
but the next generations
will improve
the dimension reduction
required for
optimal trade performance at
an ever faster rate and
with more accuracy.